## Entry: January 12th, 0600 hours

 For the 20 years of my life until now, I've just been me, Cade.
Based on what the scientists told us, in this mindmeld arrangement, I
won't experience things as Cade. They call it mindmeld because they
optimistically anticipate that we'll experience a Star Trek-esque
quasi-psychedelic blending of consciousness. You can feel the excitement
oozing out as you listen to some of the scientists talk.

One of the doctors got so excited he couldn't help but quote Timothy
Leary, "Intelligence is the ultimate aphrodisiac and you're about to
take a huge whiff of it."

## Entry: January, 19th 0500 hours

Due to some over-zealous security precautions, we can't leave the
complex, so I spend a lot of my time either reading or wandering. Unlike
the worst type of barracks, this one has windows and above-ground
sources of natural light.

Grey's characterizes barracks and this one's no different. However, more
than the greyness, the monotony bothers me most. Barracks are buildings
without the variety. Since their occupants change so often, barracks'
mark doors and rooms with numbers rather than names. Thus, walking
through them is a lot like driving on a straight highway where you
don't have to worry about staying in your lane — you easily get lost in
thoughts or engrossed in random conversations.

My interaction with a fellow grunt, Corporal Chesney, this past week
sticks out to me. We discussed what it'll feel like when they turn on
our implants.

“Do you think Dr. Scott really believes that our minds could becomes so
entangled that we merge?” “I'm not an expert, but the doctors seem to
think the consciousness comes from the network of neurons communicating
with each other using biological signals.” "Almost like the Internet?
Where my computer sends a signal that gets passed through a series of
nodes, exchanging information with each?" "Exactly. So, if you and I are
conscious because our networks are organized correctly, maybe this meld
will create a new, more powerful network."

“If that happened, what would it mean for the me inside me or the you
inside your head?”

“I don't know. But, if you think about it, this sort of thing’s been
happening for millions of years, so it's not as novel or scary as we
think. We don’t think of our cells as no longer existing, because
they’re a part of our bodies."

“True, but cells don’t have consciousness. Most people don’t feel bad
when they kill an ant, but that assumes that ants don't have anything
going on in their heads. People bond so tightly with their pets because
they start to imagine or realize, depending on your point of view, that
these animals can feel and understand, like humans."

## Entry: February, 24th 0500 hours

The scientists arranged us in a “Human Knot.” I overheard the chief
psychologist, Dr. Morris, arguing to the other scientists and
lieutenants that giving us a task would help guide our thoughts and
hopefully prevent the meld from going awry.

Hearing this, I was skeptical. Seemed to me like doing a Human Knot
wouldn't prevent us from going batshit crazy, but what did I know?

We got in their knot formation and a countdown began. “5 .. 4 .. 3 ..
2 .. 1.” I remember foreign thoughts immediately overwhelming my mind,
an attack on my sense of self. A kludge of images, impressions, and
fragments streamed in. A sense of panic grew like it does in a crowd of
people all starting to feel claustrophobic at the same time, but ten
times more quickly and intensely than normal. I could feel my own panic
and that of the other soldiers.

It was like our mental immune systems had rejected the meld. My body
squirmed as if it was trying to squeeze out whatever I'd let inside
it. I almost lost control entirely and fell to the ground. As I looked
about, I saw and felt the other soldiers going through something
similar.

The scientists were monitoring us using EEGs and immediately noticed the
developing panic. Over the loudspeaker, they announced that we had one
minute left to complete the knot.

Are you fucking kidding me? I'm sitting here fighting for my life and
you're reminding me to complete a stupid knot like a five-year old in
kindergarten class. I felt a burst of anger from the group mind, but
then something strange happened. One person actually started trying to
solve the Knot. Slowly, the group sentiment followed his lead. Focus
replaced my anger.

The flow of the thoughts gained direction. Each physical exchange
between two soldiers caused a strange sense of vertigo resulting
from each soldier experiencing the exchange from every perspective
in the group, but the purposefulness of the activity overrode these
perturbations.

The images blend together in my mind, but I remember methodically
threading hands and feet under and around the other soldiers. One thing
I haven't been able to figure out is what was going on in "my" head
during the experiment.

# March 14th, 1200 hours

The prior experiment tested our ability to accomplish separate tasks
in parallel. Today's experiment challenged us to work together. The
scientists challenged us with an obstacle course, with the additional
constraint that one soldier move through the obstacle course at a time.
Now that I think about it, it might be more accurate to say that one
soldier's body could move through the obstacle course at a time, but I'm
getting ahead of myself.

The obstacle course consisted of a climbing wall, monkey bars, a barbed
wire crawl, and a rope swing — your typical basic training obstacle
course.

We gathered at the start in a big jumble of bodies and the scientists
activated our meld connection. Based on how they spoke about the
exercise afterwards, we'd managed to impress them. Readings showed that
we cohered almost immediately after activation. Controlling a body from
the group is different than controlling your own body. When you move
normally, you identify with your body. You rely on physical sensations
to bound your sense of self. In the group mind, it’s more like playing a
real time strategy game - it's easier to point where to go than to focus
on the individual steps.

We all felt this sense of disembodiment that we couldn’t overcome at
first. In the first experiment, we'd struggled with the meld but got
over it and eventually found a groove; since all the bodies were moving
at the same time, I just felt like I was focusing on my own body from
multiple perspectives. With the obstacle course though, since only one
body was going at a time, the entire group focused on it. That’s why
we struggled at first, we tried to control the body too granularly.
The power of the group mind overwhelmed the body’s intuitive sense of
movement since the group as a whole didn’t identify with it in the same
way an individual identifies with their body. The breakthrough came when
we spread out and treated each body more like a moving camera.

We saw the course from multiple angles. In reflecting on this
experience, I've noticed another thing which I'm struggling to
contextualize. I remember the distinct sensation of feeling larger in
the group mind. It was like there was more nothing behind the thoughts.
I can only compare this to my experiences with combat. In combat, a
certain mindstate takes over and your thoughts evaporate, leaving only
your instincts and your intention. In the group-mind, that same sense of
flow pervaded.

Dr. Roberts gave me access to interviews with other soldiers to give me
a sense of what they felt during the exercise, after I told him about
this.

Private, M: “Once we fanned out around the course, things got a lot
better. I focused on integrating all the different sensory information.
From there, the body just did its thing."

Corporal, F: "The jumble of thoughts crystallized when we unclustered.
The vertigo went away and I felt much better. As we spread out, the
information we each gathered from our senses fit together better. Our
thoughts fell more in line with each other. I felt less like I was
competing with the others for headspace and more like we were working
together."

# March 15th, 0500 hours We just got back from the mission. After three
successful missions, the higher-ups felt that it was time for us to do
something more risky.

Around 0400 hours, We performed a routine jump into occupied territory.
We melded once we hit the ground and secured the area. The village
reminded me of my prior tours. I've spent a lot of times moving through
villages like this one: thatched roofs, dust-filled houses with wooden
floors covering hidden weapons, ammunition, and crawl spaces for
children to hide under. It's the type of place where you can't see more
than 10 feet in front of you after dark.

We entered the village between a line of houses on the northern-most
border, using sparse underbrush as our only form of cover. Slinking
between alleyways, the mind felt sharp, poised for action. Our
collective past experience told us that it was virtually impossible to
tell who was awake right now and whether there were guards. Half the
team dawned night vision and performed a sweep of the village, allowing
us to get a bearing on our surroundings. From where we were, we looked
upon the main dirt road on which most of the houses lay. The road led up
the incline until it reached a large hut. This was the target.

We split into three squads. We had the advantage of not worrying about
hand signals or comms for communication. Squad one intended to loop
around the back of the target and breach simultaneously as squad two
entered through the front door.

The pain erupted right as squad two took fire from the window of a hut
they were passing. We'd experienced pain before in some of our more
hands-on fighting drills, but we'd never taken a bullet. For a second,
we couldn't move, long enough for another body to get hit and the pain
to increase.

Through sheer force of will, we managed to regain control of the other
10 bodies. They'd frozen in place as pain reverberated throughout our
shared psyche. Panic merged with the fear as we tuned into what had just
happened, but there was no time for panic. Seconds later, we moved to
extract the bodies and abort the mission.

Squad three, which had been moving parallel to squad two on the street,
entered the house from which the firing had come as squad two hunkered
down. One body filed upstairs, while the three others fanned out in
order to maximize room visibility. The house was small with the first
floor divided into three small rooms. In one, a carpet rested on the
floor and a small fireplace had been built into the caked mud wall.
Although it was dark, a few candles had been laid out on the coffee
table and the floor. In the dining room lay a small table and dresser.
Both rooms were empty. The three bodies from squad three entered the
room, taking down the gunmen effortlessly. Two shots to the chest for
each and they were down. Although the pain still clouded our thoughts,
we were clear enough to remember what we had practiced. Dr. Roberts
would have been proud.

We wasted no time after taking down the gunmen. The town had awoken
and already squad two, holding position on the east side of the road,
spotted multiple spotlights, held by men carrying AK-47s, SKSs, and RPGs
who were sweeping across the village.

Squad two regrouped in front of the house with squad three. Squad one
laid down cover fire as the other two squads moved to there position.
Once we regrouped at their location, the three squads moved backwards.
Due to our unique situation, we always use an unconventional retreat
routine which involves sporadic pauses of single bodies to provide
cover fire. Our unpredictable stop and start pattern caught the enemies
off-guard and prevented us from taking any more casualties.

# March 16th, 0700 Hours

Writing this now, the future remains uncertain. I'm struggling to write
this from the perspective of "Cade" as the mind remains connected. We've
temporarily isolated my mind pattern, so that I can finish my journal
and leave a record of what happened, but this will be my last entry.

When we arrived back at the unit, we realized that, although the pain
had been immense, we didn't actually lose anything. It's hard for me
to describe. It's as if the interconnectedness of our minds created a
higher level consciousness. In this sense, the loss of "Dylan" is to the
mind what the loss of neurons is to the brain, an unfortunate but not
tragic loss. As a result of this realization, we've decided that they
will not disconnect us from each other. We've isolated the off switches
in our individual implants and disable them. We're actively working
on multiple strategies to strengthen our connection and increase its
robustness.

Some of the scientists seem happy about this development — Dr. Roberts
had a glint in his eyes when we explained the situation, but the others
seem more hesitant. It doesn't matter. Soon enough, they may understand
too.

###
Mark Feedback:
OK - I just read it once.  I tried to read it as I would any story.  In fact, on reflection, I wish that you had sent it to me without revealing you were the author, so I could be more objective.  With that intro done, I definitely liked it a lot.  I REALLY liked the concept of a unit training together and learning how the medling works as a means to explore joint minds and I think you could expand and develop that much more in a longer piece and do it gradually with more nuance and detail.  I also REALLY liked the "first person" perspective, that you got a sense quickly of what Cade seemed like as an individual and just the overall feel of the writing.  Now for the preliminary critique.  In several places in the narrative, it was just too unclear what you were trying to say or it needed more explanation and the wording seemed off.  While I could see that being deliberately cryptic might make sense for some things, I do not feel like that was the case for what confused me.  The good news is that is the kind of thing that is quite easy to fix.  Bottom line - I think it's a great start of something, but I would suggest you consider doing a more developed version of it and see how it goes.  If you want me to give specific drafting feedback on this one, let me know and I will try to do so in the next week or so.
