---
layout: post
title: Weekly Newsletter (11-30-2014)
category: posts
draft: false
---
This week, I chose to focus exclusively on Ferguson, and only include
Other Contributions outside of articles about Ferguson. I did this
because I felt I could not give sufficient attention to Ferguson without
including more than 2-3 articles about the topic.

On an unrelated note, I've been documenting my [Winter Break
Reading](/posts/winter-break-reading).
While this is mostly for myself, I've reviewed two of the books I've
read and intend to document my thoughts on the others subsequently.

## Spotlight on Ferguson
Since Ferguson is a polarizing issue, I did my best to take a methodical approach to
covering the issue. My goal in doing this is not to convince you of the
legitimacy or illegitimacy of the outcome. Rather, I hope to provide
you with information that can help you come to an informed conclusion
about the case and the events surrounding it.

I included one article containing an interview with Alan Dershowitz, a
legal scholar whom I respect.

I included two articles written before the outcome of the case was known. One
supports the argument that justice was served. The other argues that
justice was not served and the case presents a "failure at every level".
In my research into the case, I found that articles written before the
outcome of the case was known typically presented more compelling cases
for their arguments, although I'm not totally sure why this was the case.

Then, I included a video of Rep. John Lewis' commentary on the case, a
video and article with Obama's commentary on the case, and
the transcript of the Grand Jury investigation. These primary and
secondary sources provide a good context for the case.

[We have a moral divide, not a racial one](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2014/11/25/we_have_a_moral_divide_not_a_racial_one_124753.html)  
This article is interesting because it was written before
the outcome of the Ferguson case was known. The
author claims that we must separate the investigation of
the justice system's handling of the case from the broader issues of
race relations. The true goal of the investigation should be to discover the
truth of what happened in the case. He goes on to claim that the
real divide between the sides of the Ferguson debate is an ideological one,
between people who believe that justice can be served based on an
investigation and discovery of the facts surrounding the case,
and people who deny that justice can be served without
considering the racial context surrounding the case.
As I'm sure many of my readers will point out, this author possesses a
clear bias against "the left". However, I don't feel that, in this case,
that subtracts from his primary argument about the real goal of the case
and "justice" in general.

[Ferguson shows failure at every level](http://www.cnn.com/2014/11/24/opinion/johnson-ferguson-grand-jury/index.html?hpt=hp_t2)  
This article was also authored prior to the outcome of the case.
It asserts that the Ferguson government has failed to provide much-needed
leadership and is corrupt. I found this article well thought-out and compelling.
Based on the article, the key failure points in the investigation and
adjudication processes were the governor
neglecting to elect a special prosecutor and choosing to not send in National
Guardsmen.

[Dershowitz Blasts Media for 'Whooping Up a Frenzy' in Ferguson](http://www.newsmax.com/Newsmax-Tv/Dershowitz-Ferguson-media-Iran/2014/11/25/id/609460/)  
Dershowitz affirmatively comes out on the side of the grand jury stating
that "The grand jury came to the right decision because generally you don't indict someone unless you believe you can convict them at a jury trial," and
"Any reasonable prosecutor would come to the conclusion that even if he were indicted, he would've been acquitted by a jury because there was reasonable doubt written all over this case."

[Rep. John Lewis calls for Massive Non-Violent Protests Nationwide if
Darren Wilson isn't Indicted](http://www.mediaite.com/online/rep-john-lewis-calls-for-massive-non-violent-protests-nationwide-if-wilson-isnt-indicted/)  
John Lewis, a Democratic representative from Georgia who is "a civil
rights icon" compares the Ferguson situation to the
[1965 Selma to Montgomery march](http://edition.cnn.com/2013/09/15/us/1965-selma-to-montgomery-march-fast-facts/).
I think this comparison is ridiculous. First of all,
despite Lewis' suggestion otherwise, the riots in Ferguson were certainly
violent, with violence instigated by rioters against innocent
businesses in Ferguson. At Selma, the protestors' non-violent march was
quelled by violent police who brutalized them. In addition, the 1965
protests were aimed to eliminate legalized, institutionalized racism in
the form of Jim Crow Laws and a practical lack of voting rights and
equal protections under the law. While widespread or even potentially
instutionalized racism may exist in Ferguson, the situation in Ferguson
lacks the distinguishing elements of Selma.

[Obama Differs From Lewis: Ferguson Isn't Selma](http://www.mediaite.com/tv/obama-differs-from-john-lewis-ferguson-isnt-selma/)  
Covers Obama's talk on ABC with George Stephanopoulos. I agreed with
most of Obama's points and appreciated that he refuted Lewis' claim that
Ferguson was analogous to Selma.

[State of Missouri v. Darren Wilson Transcript](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/1370907-grand-jury-volume-5.html#document/p210/a189665)  
This is the full transcript of Darren Wilson's Grand Jury court hearing. It includes
the entire interview of Wilson and the presentation of various pieces of
evidence. Unfortunately, I have not read it. However, I think any true
analysis of the Ferguson case should take into account this primary
source.

## Other Contributions
[Mean People Fail](http://paulgraham.com/mean.html)
(Contibuted by Matt Ritter, Described by Me)  
Paul Graham, the founder of YCombinator, the first startup incubator,
and one of my many startup heros, talks about why being "mean" is
inversely correlated with success as a startup founder or intellectual.
First, as Matt pointed out to me, this argument refutes the stereotype
that bigshots are inherently and necessarily assholes.
I agree with this article's thesis, but have one nitpick. I think Graham fails
to discuss and delineate the difference between being "mean" (an
asshole) and being
"honest." In my own experience, successful people, in particular
technical ones, tend to be honest but benevolent. In other words, they
are the type of people who will critique your work and maybe even your
flaws but not attack you.

I also wonder and would be curious to hear from my readers whether they
believe this holds in other fields. In my limited experience in the
working world, I have primarily worked with people who work in tech at
small to medium size companies, and I know Matt has too. I'd love to
hear from people who work in finance, law, medicine, etc. on whether
they believe this holds true.

[A quantum world arising from many ordinary ones](http://www.nature.com/news/a-quantum-world-arising-from-many-ordinary-ones-1.16213)
(Contributed by Leslie Cofer, Described by Me)  
Describes a new theory about the root source of quantum phenomenon. I
often shy away from including articles about theoretical physics because
it is an area where I find science writers often do a particularly poor
job due to the fact that most theoretical physics theories are deeply
rooted in complex mathematics. However, I appreciated and decided to
include this article as the theory presented lends itself especially
well to an understandable analogy.

[Why we humblebrag about being busy](https://hbr.org/2014/06/why-we-humblebrag-about-being-busy/)
(Contributed by Jen Dalecki, Described by Me)  
Asserts that we are currently living in a "more bubble" where both
individuals and businesses strive for excessive breadth at the expense
of depth. I enjoyed this article and intend to include the Time article
on Mindfulness it links to in the next newsletter.
